# Release Checklist

<table><thead><tr><th width="72">#</th><th width="185">Checklist</th><th>Yes/No/Partially</th><th width="136">Reference link</th><th width="121">Owner</th><th width="203">Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Development is completed for all the features that are part of the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="./">Release Notes</a></td><td>@Sandhya K</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Test cases are documented by the QA team, reviewed by the product owners and test results are updated in the test cases sheet.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15n_U7PVlUj3tHwnl_gy11AogPC_40tEe7RRHR0oO38Y/edit#gid=0">Test Cases</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The incremental demo of the features showcased during the sprint showcase and feedback incorporated. If possible list out the JIRA tickets for feedback.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Satish N @Vasanth Kumar</td><td>Sprint Showcase (12-Dec-2022) and internal team demo(14-Sep-2022 ) with Product owner completed </td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>UI/UX Audit review by UX Architect is completed along with feedback incorporation for any changes in UI/UX.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1683">PFM-1683</a></td><td>@Ramkrishna Sahoo @Antriksh Kumar</td><td>Audit completed (30-Nov-2022). Observations added in the card. <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1683">PFM-1683</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Incremental demos to the product owners are completed as part of the sprint and feedbacks are incorporated.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td><p>@Sandhya K</p><p>@Vasanth Kumar</p></td><td><p>Multiple Incremental demos (8-Sep-22 &#x26; 14-Sep-22) were completed during the sprint cycle. </p><p>Observations: <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1625">PFM-1625</a>, <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1626">PFM-1626</a>, <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1601">PFM-1601</a>, <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1593">PFM-1593</a>, <a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1550">PFM-1550</a></p></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>QA signoff is completed by the QA team and communicated to the product owners. All the tickets QA signoff status is updated in the JIRA.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="test-cases.md">Test cases</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td>QA sign-off done (20-Sep-22)</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>UI, API Technical documents are updated for the release along with the configuration documents. </td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="./#document-resources-and-links">Tech Docs</a></td><td>@Sandhya K</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>UAT promotion and regression testing from the QA team is completed. QA team has shared the UAT regression test cases with the product owners.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="test-cases.md">Test cases</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar. @Nirupama</td><td>UAT regression test cases. Signed off on 8-Dec-2022</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>API Automation scripts are updated for new APIs or changes to any existing APIs for the release. API automation regression is completed on UAT, the automation test results are analyzed and necessary actions are taken to fix the failure cases. Publish the list of failure use cases with a reason for failure and the resolution taken to fix these failures for the release.</td><td>No</td><td></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td>No API Automation for mgramSeva</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>The API backward compatibility testing is completed.</td><td>No</td><td></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td>No API Automation for mgramSeva</td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>The communication is shared with the product owners for the completion of UAT promotion and regression by the QA team. The product owners have to give a Product signoff within one week of this communication.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Nirupama Karanam @Satish N</td><td>QA Communication was done on 28-Nov-22 <br>UAT Sign off was on 5-Dec-22<br>Product sign-off was on 9-Dec-22</td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>UAT Product Signoff communication is received from the Product owners along with the release notes and User guides (if applicable).</td><td>Yes</td><td><ul><li><a href="./">Release Notes</a></li><li><a href="../../product-docs/user-docs/user-manual.md">User Manual</a></li></ul></td><td>@Satish N</td><td>Signed off on 9-Dec-2022</td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>The GIT tags and releases are created for the code changes for the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="service-build-updates.md">Service Build Updates</a></td><td>@Sandhya K </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Verify whether the Release notes are updated</td><td>Yes</td><td><p><a href="./">Release Notes</a></p><p></p></td><td><p></p><p>@Sandhya K</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Verify whether all UAT Builds are updated along with the GIT tag details.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="service-build-updates.md">Master Builds</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>Verify whether all MDMS, Configs, InfraOps configs updated.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="mdms-configuration-and-migration-updates.md">MDMS Config</a></td><td>@snehal.gothe @Sandhya K</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>Verify whether all docs are published to <a href="https://mgramseva.digit.org/">mGram website</a> by the Technical Writer as part of the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td><p>@Sandhya K</p><p>@Anjoo Narayan</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>Verify whether all test cases are up to date and updated along with necessary permissions to view the test cases sheet. The test cases sheet is verified by the Test Lead.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="test-cases.md">Test cases</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>Verify whether the UAT credentials sheet is updated with the details of new Users and Roles if any</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td>It will be internally shared.</td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>Verify whether all the localisation data was added in UAT including Hindi and updated in Release Kits.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://github.com/egovernments/IFIX-releasekit">Localisation</a></td><td>@Vasanth Kumar</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>Verify whether the product release notes and user guides are updated and published</td><td>Yes</td><td><ul><li><a href="./">Release Notes</a></li></ul><ul><li><a href="../../product-docs/user-docs/user-manual.md">User Manual</a></li></ul></td><td>@Satish N</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>The Demo of released features is done by the product team as part of the Sprint/Release showcase.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Satish N</td><td>Release showcase done on 12-Dec-22  </td></tr><tr><td>23</td><td><p>Technical and Product workshops/demos are conducted by the Engineering and Product team to  the implementation team (Impel handover)</p><p> </p></td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Satish N @Arindam Gupta</td><td>Workshop Oct17, 22</td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>Plan for upgrading the staging/demo instance with the release product - within 2-4 weeks based on the period where no demos are planned from staging for the previous version of the released product.</td><td>NA</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>Architect SignOff and Technical Quality Report</td><td>No</td><td></td><td>@Ghanshyam</td><td>No dedicated Architect to mgramseva &#x26; Phani has done code review during the dev cycle. As discussed in the show case, Ghanshyam would be doing the sign-off. Sandhya will be coordinating with ghanshyam on this. This will be taken after the release since we are already late for the product release.</td></tr><tr><td>26</td><td>Success Metrics and Product Roadmap</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="./">Release Notes</a></td><td>@Satish N</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>27</td><td>Adoption Metrics</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://digit-discuss.atlassian.net/browse/PFM-1741">PFM-1741</a> </td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>28</td><td>Program Roll-out Plan</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1830gvWN7qkIlngmIfWpsS01xz275FXvFJJXMmkDgMDE/edit#gid=958617822">Roll-out plan</a></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td>Impel checklist </td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="implementation-checklist.md">Impel Checklist</a></td><td>@Arindam Gupta</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>Impel roll-out plan</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ERPiJ5lqF20H-G7t-VjQj53oN8Ibd9pENz3IUnr5vEg/edit#gid=2143865550">Roll out Plan</a></td><td>@Arindam Gupta</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>Gate 2 </td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td></td><td>Gate 2 Review is scheduled on 14-Dec-2022</td></tr><tr><td>32</td><td>The Internal release communication along with all the release artefacts are shared by the Engineering team.</td><td>Yes</td><td></td><td>@Sandhya K</td><td>Communication will be done by Engineering team 14-Dec-2022</td></tr><tr><td>33</td><td>The Release communication to partners is shared by the GTM team and the Webinar is arranged by the GTM team after the release communication - within 2-4 weeks of the release.</td><td>No</td><td></td><td></td><td>GTM Team</td></tr></tbody></table>

